>> Lukas: And so, in between template and
class, because up until this point,
if you have a class, there's nothing
particularly angular about it.
And if you have a template,
there's nothing technically
really angular about that.
Because it's mostly standard space,
there's some debate about
some of the syntax.
But it's just going to render, and so the
question is, how do we make it angular?
Well, we do that with Metadata.
So we take a regular ESS class, and
by using metadata, we are telling Angular
essentially how to process this class.
And then what it does is it essentially
takes that class, it takes the template.
And it kind of puts those together.
And then when you hit a selector or
some route definition,
then Angular notes like, hey this
template is class they go together.
And let's initialize it as a component.
So we attached metadata with
TypeScript using decorators.
They're just functions.
And so if we're gonna do like
a super advance Angular class,
this is something that you can
actually write, I recommend sometime.
Trying it out, it's pretty interesting.
But decorators are just functions that
essentially would turn another function
that Angular then knows how to,
it essentially will call and
initialize that component or
that property.
This is like eating.
I love delicious food.
I don't necessarily need to know how I'm
processing it at the molecular level.
So you can just use decorators and
really not go too deep into the woods.
But if you want to geek out, just know
that you can write custom metadata and
it's pretty neat.
The most common is the component
decorator, and this takes config options
such as selector, templateURL,
styles, styleURL, animations, etc.
So this is how we tell Angular, take this
class and do Angular things with it.
So in this case, what you have to
have is obviously a ES6 class,
a selector and a template or
a template URL.
>> Lukas: And so those are kind of the
bare minimum requirements for a component.
You have to have a selector so
you can put it into the Dom and
it needs a template and a class.
So fairly simple.
And then, we have data binding
which allows to send data from
the template to the class and vice versa.
So the binding syntax has expanded.
And as a result,
we have our built in directives like
library has just shrunk dramatically.
But we have essentially interpolation,
which if you've done Angular one,
you're familiar with double curly braces.
Property binding, event binding,
and two way binding,
which is essentially Property binding and
event binding combined.
So if you have two one-way streets,
side by side, what do you have?
Well, it's a two-way street.
And so, that's the concept
of two-way data binding.
And as I said, it's expanded but
we have a much smaller framework.
So what we have is the doubly
curly bracelets, so
we're sending a value from
the class to the template.
So if you've done angular
one this is very familiar.
But if you want to send a value and
them bind it to essentially a property,
then you use these square brackets.
So think of this,
is really like array axis notation.
Is if you have an array of stuff and
you wanna access a specific property
on it, then it is brackets.
So this is something my friend,
Todd Motto, came up with.
And it's just kind of clicked for me.
So if you wanna access something,
such as a value,
it's brackets like array notation.
Or if you want to send something
back from the template to the class.
So for instance, I click event.
Then, how do you call a method?
Well if you have a method named mymethod,
and
if you just go this.mymethod,
you're just referencing the function.
But if you want to execute it,
how do you do that?
Well, you just add
parenthesis on the end of it.
And so, think of property binding,
event binding.
And so, in this case we're sending an
event from the template to the class and
then we can put those together and
we have two-way data binding.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Two questions coming in,
one from Annie.
Is equatable to the link function?
>> Lukas: Not exactly.
So, the question is, is on it, equivalent
to the link function in a directive?
And I'm gonna say no.
The reason being is because the link
function actually returns an angular one
returns a reference about the actual
element that directive is on.
Whereas the link function has
really no knowledge of like
essentially like the element that it's on,
the attributes on that element, etc.
What on in it is closer to is if
you're using doc component syntax,
and 1.x, or 1.5, which I highly recommend,
it's essentially equivalent to
a dollar sign, I think it's.
So they've introduced, they've back ported
these component life cycle hooks into 1.x.
1.5 specifically.
I think
>> Speaker 2: Follow up to that from
Chris B.
>> Lukas: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Link function
was just DOM manipulation?
>> Lukas: Yes, although they've
updated the constructor method
in directives that you
have dollar element.
And you can manipulate it there as well.
But, I recommend,
if you're doing DOM manipulation,
really do it in the linked
function within a directive.
>> Speaker 2: Next question.
>> Lukas: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: From.
Is the digest cycle still there?
>> Lukas: Not in the classical 1.x set.
So there is still change
detection happening.
But $digest as we know it is
completely dead, thank God.
>> Speaker 2: One more
question from Simon.
What about suggestions for
using style URLs versus inline styles?
>> Lukas: So this actually falls back.
I'm not as rigid on this as with
templates and template URLs.
So just to reiterate I
think your templates or
your components should be fine-grained in
so much that your template, your HTML,
should comfortably fit inline.
Again, there's cases where
that's not gonna make sense.
For instance, if you're dealing with
a forum I found that it's pretty verbose,
as well as if you're dealing
with a team of designers.
And so I've mentioned this to some
people and they're like, what?
We don't have people do our layouts.
That's crazy.
I do it all.
Well unfortunately there are companies
that they actually have dedicated
resources that all they do is html, CSS,
and they get everything pixel perfect.
When you're dealing with that workflow,
it's really handy to give or essentially
receive like here, so your html file,
here is your CSS and you just
reference them as external files so
it allows you to decouple
that in the workflow.
With that said, if it's a very specific
simple thing then I will use style and
drop it in there.
I think it just comes down to what you and
your team decides.
And then I think from that
point you should stick to it.
So again,
consistency is better than being right.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
questions are coming in like crazy here.
One from Macy.
Can a property in one way data
binding be an attribute of an element?
>> Lukas: Can a property
in one way data binding?
Yes.
That's the point.
This is kind of the keyboard equivalent
if you're looking at like piano keys
is that you can see we have a class and a
template, interpolation, property binding,
so that's one way from class to template.
Then in our template we have the event
binding, which essentially sends a event
with information about
that Back into the class.
And then we have the two-way data binding.
More importantly is it helps
to actually visualize it.
I feel like I'm looking down on top of it,
is that you have your template and
your class with metadata
sitting in between.
But your template is sending event binding
into the class, or event information.
And your class is sending essentially
information as properties
into your template.
And so we are actually going
to revisit this exact graph or
this diagram later when we
get into driven architecture.
>> Lukas: So let's check this out here.
>> Lukas: At the top, what do we have?
The first two elements.
What kind of binding do we have in there?
>> Speaker 3: Turbulation.
>> Lukas: Turbulation, yes.
So now,
if we go to the experiment component,
and if you look toward the ends there,
we have the brackets.
What's going on there?
>> Speaker 3: So it's a property.
>> Lukas: Yes, so
essentially we're binding
the experiment object to this template.
And so this is, without trying to get
ahead of myself, I don't want to say too
much, but this is how you essentially
send data into child components.
This is the majority of what
I use property binding for
but what we're doing is we're saying I
want to bind this experiment property
to this experiment
attribute on this element.
Now let's go down to
the input within the form.
And you can see here we have NG model.
And what do you think happens
if we have property binding and
event binding together?
So remember you go like this two one
way streets make a two way street.
So this is two way data binding in action.
This is what this looks like,
the two things put together,
they call this banana in a box.
Essentially you just visualize it's
just a banana sitting in a box, or
a hotdog in a box, whatever.
Unfortunately that's a little too
close to a very hilarious SNL skit,
and moving along.
In the submit, what do we have here?
Click.
So, what are we capturing.
>> Speaker 3: The event.
>> Speaker 4: Event.
>> Lukas: The click event.
And so, what you can actually do,
is any dom event, as far as I know.
I haven't exhaustively tried this out,
but if you go to the MDN, and
you pull up dom event, you can just start
grabbing those and binding to them.
And so we have click.
We're binding to it, parenthesis.
And when that click event is captured.
Then we're calling update message and
we're passing in message, makes sense.
Okay, this is for all my homies.
That are doing now,
one.x, and this comes up.
But what about directives?
So, think of a component as
a directive with a template.
More so, I just think of directives
as a component without a template.
So there are times when you want
to augment an existing element.
And this is where
directives come in handy.
So if you want to take an existing
element and enhance it,
so it's decorated with @Directive.
And so a component is
a directive with a template or
a directive is a component
without a template.
So technically If my
life was on the line and
had to be absolutely submantly
correct a component is a directive.
So really a component
derives off of the directive.
But it has a template.
And more importantly angular comes with
built in directives that
we'll see in a little bit.
So what we have here is a blinker
directive, being now that
the blink tag has been deprecated,
we could technically bring this back.
And so now you can imagine we have
a paragraph and we want it to blink.
So we don't need a new element or
a template.
We want to really augment
the behaviour of an existing element.
And so what I want everybody
to notice here is one, so
this goes back to our link function,
that this is slightly closer to how
a link function works in angular one.
In the sense that you are injecting
the element ref into your constructor so
now you have access to
the element that exists.
So I would say more so
element ref is closer to dollar element or
what exists in the link function.
But this is the piece
that I want to point out.
In the directive, or
in our directive metadata,
notice we simply have a selector.
We no longer have a template.